i have a 3 classes

class1=Parent
class2=child1
class3=subchild

now in my parent class i have 3 variables with different values, 3 methods available

in child 1 have 5 variables which are not same as parent, 2 methods also which are not same as parent


subchild have only a main method.

The relationship they have here is multilevel inheritance.

My Question is can the subchild access, the parent class properties?

Yes.


For the same question, can the child or subchild modify the values of the variables that are available inside the parent class?

When there is no restriction, applied all the childs under the parent can go directly and change the repective values.


Can the parent class restrict the child class not to modify their properties?

this can be achive making the variable as final



in my parent class, i have a variable as static, in child class can i use that variable at class level?

No, we can reintialize it but can not access.You can access them inside a method only

How can i avoid accessing parent class variables or methods by a child class?

Yes simply make the variables or methods to be private.


How can i avoid a class to get inherited by a child class?

Yes just keep a keyword called "final" before the classname



when i have proper inheritance , can i use my this keyword in childclass and can i access the parent class variables?

class parent{

public int a=10;

}

class child extends parent{
this.a=50;
}

Yes we can use this keyword to access the parent class variables.when there is no common name variables available in both parent and chld class.

if the parent class and the child class is having same name then how can i differentiate between them?

to represent the parent classvariable use super
to represent the current classvariable use this


Role of a constructor in inheritance?


Parent class have an constructor
Child class does not have an constructor what is teh behaviour?

No, it will throw an exception:
Implicit super constructor Parent() is undefined for default constructor. Must define an explicit constructor


To avoid this situation, either we must go to parent class constructor and define the zero argument based constructor or create child class parametrized constructor.

Reason:
When we dont create any constructor for a class, by default there will be a zero argument based constructor will be created by the JVM.

in this zero argument based default constructor will have first statement as super()

when we create any constructor either having inheritance or not no matter the default constructor will get removed.


so i underatnd that to reffer a parent class constructor super () is the statement must be used againb it must be the first calling statement 












