Constructor:

Constructor is to intialize the object of a class.

It will intilize the class level variables

Constructor name will look like same as Classname

constructor will be in the format of a method, but it can not return a value.

when we want to send data to the class members(variables) we must need to send via a constructor

when ever we create an object of the class, constructor will get called.

By default there will be a zero argument based constructor available in the background.

it means that there are different types of constructors available

parametrized constructors
non parameterized constructors


By default we will have zon parameterized constructor

How to call a constructor:
when ever we create an object to the class, constructor will be trigger

How can i call a contructor from other constructor?

Yes we can do that by using a method called 
this()

but we need to remember here is, the calling statement must be always the first statement.

there should not be multiple calling statements

for suppose , i want to call 2 argument based constructor from single argument constructor

this(argument1,argument2)


I have my class variables names and constructor variable names as same, i am confused with values that they are holding, how can i make a jsutification between class level variables and constructor level variables?

When classlevel level variables and constructor levle variables having same name, constructor will take the constructer level variable names only which is called as local variables.

to differentiate between class and constructor level variables we use this keyword

this is used to represent current class variables

also this keyword can be used inside the instance methods only.

this can not be used inside the static blocks


can i assign the constructor level variable values to the classlevel variable?

Yes we can using this keyword .


Ram have a school application where he can send  data like studentname,age and standard.

he want you to develop a logic where he can store all the student details and you must generate a unique id for each student every time and it must be inrementail and sequential.

What is comparator and what is comparable 










